
üå± About me 
================

I‚Äôve been a microbiologist since 2008 researching community interactions
of microorganisms.

### My PhD Work

My thesis work was done on biofilm formation in extreme environments,
working in the [Deep-Sea Microbiology
Lab](https://marine.rutgers.edu/deep-seamicrobiology/) at Rutgers
University.

The samples I worked with came from deep-sea hydrothermal vents,
geothermally-fueled oases of diversity in the depths of the ocean
untouched by sunlight.

My research centered around understanding the metabolic and
physiological capabilities of novel bacteria species [*Phorcysia
thermohydrogeniphila*](https://www.microbiologyresearch.org/content/journal/ijsem/10.1099/ijs.0.035642-0)
and [*Cetia pacifica*](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25604337/),
organisms capable of thriving under extreme environmental conditions by
deriving food and harvesting energy from the degassing of Earth‚Äôs molten
layers.

<div style="width:40%;
            margin-right:6%;
            float: left;">

<img src="Ashley.png" width="100%">

<p style="color:gray; 
            background-color:#eee;
            margin-top:0px;
            width:100%;
            height:auto;
            padding-top:0px;
            padding-bottom:0px;
            text-align:center;">

<p>

<span style="font-size:10.0pt;color:gray;font-family:Verdana,sans-serif;font-weight:bold;font-style:italic;">Working
at the DSML, Rutgers University</span>

</div>

The biological profiles of these organisms showed potential as crucial
species for the creation of new hydrothermal sites.

A 16S metabarcoding analysis paired with local chemistry measurements
helped reconstruct how microbial community composition was shaped by
environmental conditions and much larger life-forms living in the same
space, which we deemed the ‚Äúbioregime‚Äù.

\-biofilm pic? -cetia pic -16S diversity pic -NMDS w ordisurf pic

### My Postdoctoral Work

My postdoctoral research took me across the ocean to the European
Institute of Marine Studies in sunny Plouzan√©, France as part of the
[Microbial EcoGenomics](http://pagesperso.univ-brest.fr/~maignien/)
group.

My postdoctoral reasearch investigated the microbiology of subsurface
carbon storage environments as part geo-energy technologies consortium
Science for Clean Energy [(S4CE)](https://science4cleanenergy.eu/). I
investigated microbial communities in deep, geothermally-heated
subsurface aquifers in Iceland used as sites for carbon storage. 16S
metabarcoding analysis combined with biogeochemical data showed an array
of microbes capable of utilizing compounds derived from the
deep-subsurface. At the same time, community analysis uncovered a
microbial consortium conserved across all samples linked with iron
oxidation, which enriched for certain species depending oxygen
availability. Metagenomic analysis revealed the presence of novel taxa,
and signature species of the deep subsurface biosphere.

\-alpha diversity -nmds -PCA chemistry -16S diversity -wcgna -network
analysis -MAGs

## Find me around the web:

  - Sharing updates on
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ashley-grosche/)

  - Blogging for the Science for Clean Energy consortium
    [S4CE](https://science4cleanenergy.eu/resources/articles/subsurfacemicrobes/)
